README - What to do when CFSv2 files are missing or corrupted
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There may be a rare occasion when the "raw" CFSv2 forecast files may be missing
or are incomplete. The latest cloud-based services of the CFSv2 downloads 
should help to mitigate this issue. However, if an occasion occurs when files
are missing, we provide the below guidance and steps to help "patch" those
files.

SECTION 1: Identifying missing or corrupted CFSv2 files
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have put an internal file-check program to make sure the system functions
without a hitch. It checks the status of all CFSv2 forecast files before 
initiating a forecast.

The internal CFSv2 forecast download routine used by the E2ES is as follows:

    wget_cfsv2_oper_ts_e2es.sh

The CFSv2 file-check utility is also integrated in wget_cfsv2_oper_ts_e2es.sh.

Consequently, the file-check tool is called by the E2ES master script 
(s2s_run.sh) via wget_cfsv2_oper_ts_e2es.sh before a forecast is launched. If a
faulty file was discovered after the file check, a WARNING message will be 
displayed in the terminal and s2s_run.sh will halt the launch. The WARNING 
message, for example, for the forecast for May 2023:

    Missing or Corrupted CFSv2 forcing files were found
    Please follow the instructions in:
    scratch/202305/CFSv2_missing_corrupted_files
    
"CFSv2_missing_corrupted_files" contains instructions for patching the system 
and is particular to your current run. The instructions include: 
    (1) which files need to be patched;
    (2) where the replacement files should be kept 
        CONFIG_FILE:SETUP;supplementarydir/bcsd_fcst/patch_files/
    (3) a list of wget commands to download potential replacement files in 
        order of preference
    (4) how to update the supplementarydir/bcsd_fcst/patch_files/patch_files_list.txt file.

For information on the process that was employed to provide a list of wget commands to
download  potential replacements, see SECTION 2 below.

After downloading replacement files to the "patch_files" directory, updating 
"patch_files_list.txt" with the replacement information and rerunning the E2ES,
a message of success will be displayed on the terminal, and s2s_run.sh will 
continue with the forecast (e.g. again for May 2023 forecast):

      SUCCESS ! All CFSv2 forcings files passed the file check.


SECTION 2: S2S's selection process for potential replacements
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The S2S system will handle extracting the correct data from these files
automatically. However, you will need to mark when these patch files need
to be used. To do so, you will need to append the neccesary information to the
provided text file: "patch_files_list.txt". The information needed will be:

    1) The filedate of missing/corrupted data
    2) The name of the missing/corrupted file
    3) The name of the replacement (patch) file

and needs to be separated by a ",". This file holds the information for all
patch files used within the system for forecasts and hindcasts. Please see
example use case below.

We recommend using data from another initial forecast date. These "patch files"
are chosen via the following method:

1) Starting with the previous forecast day, look to see if there is available
data at the same forecast hour. If not, consequtively look at data at days
closest to the forecast day, but to not exceed + or - 4 days (as this would
overlap with the next forecast pentad), or the first day of lead month 0 (as
this would lead to loss of data).

2) If data is not available following above rule, see if data at a different
forecast hour is available on those same dates.

3) If data is not available following above rules, see if data at a different
forecast hour on the original forecast day is available. This will overlap
with another ensemble, but if used sparringly is completely fine for the
system.
 
SECTION 3: EXAMPLE CASE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As an example, consider the CFSv2 forecast files needed for May 2023. Files for
0Z, 6Z, 12Z, and 18Z will be needed for the dates: 
      
    2023-04-16
    2023-04-21
    2023-04-26

This will result in 12 distinct files (4 forecast hours per 3 days). In the
situation where (for example) temperature at 12Z is missing for the date
2023-04-21, the "CFSv2_missing_corrupted_files" text file will contain specific
suggestions for file replacements (along with commands to download directly).
You would then check the availability in this list (from the top):

    tmp2m.01.2023042012.daily.grb2
    tmp2m.01.2023042212.daily.grb2
    tmp2m.01.2023041912.daily.grb2
    tmp2m.01.2023042312.daily.grb2
    tmp2m.01.2023041812.daily.grb2
    tmp2m.01.2023042412.daily.grb2
    tmp2m.01.2023041712.daily.grb2
    tmp2m.01.2023042512.daily.grb2

When available data is found, you will use this file instead of the file for
the missing and/or corrupted data file. Download the file to the "patch_files"
directory (set in the s2s config) and then add the information to the included
"patch_files_list.txt" text file. Following the above example, if temperature
was missing and the "tmp2m.01.2023042012.daily.grb2" file was available, you 
would append this information to the bottom of the text file:

    2023042112, tmp2m.01.2023042112.daily.grb2, tmp2m.01.2023042012.daily.grb2

Once this information is placed within this file, the S2S system will handle 
replacing the data automatically.
