PAL forcing reader testcase
===========================

This is a testcase that demonstrates how to read PALS forcing data and
generate a product that can be compared to PALS observations. PALS
stands for the "Protocol for the Analysis of Land Models" and was
designed by Gab Abramowitz. The website is here:
http://www.pals.unsw.edu.au/pals/Welcome.action.


This is a test case that uses: 
  (a) the PALS forcing 
  (b) using the bilinear interpolation
  (c) the Noah 3.3. LSM option
  (d) the Blodgett station point (38.895 lat, -120.635 lon)
  (e) a time period from Jan 1 2000, hr 0 to Jan 1, 2006, hr 0


This directory contains: 
  (a) This README file, 
  (b) the ldt.config file used for this test case. (This file should be 
      edited to make sure that the locations of the parameter and 
      forcing files are specified correctly.) 
  (c) the lis.config file used for this test case. (This file should be 
      edited to make sure that the locations of the parameter and 
      forcing files are specified correctly.) 
  (d) A sample grads control file that can be used to visualize the 
      output. (output.ctl)
  (e) A sample Matlab script that can be used to compare the LIS results
      with the measured PALS data at this site. (gather_results.m)


To run this test case: 
  (a) Generate the LIS executable. 
  (b) Download the sample input data from: 
	http://lis.gsfc.nasa.gov/Source/testcases  
      the testcase corresponding to PALS FORCING TEST
  (c) Run the LIS executable using the lis.config file and the sample 
      input data. 
  (d) View the binary output using the sample grads file. 


Notes:

The purpose of PALS is to formalize the process of benchmarking land
surface models. The PALS website currently hosts 20 global point-scale
surface flux and forcing data sets. This testcase takes one of those 20
and runs the Noah.3.3 model at the site (Blodgett) over a 7 year period
(the entire extent of this particular data record). PALS benchmarking
protocol calls for repeating the first data year 10 times as spinup - in
this testcase we use a coldstart. If you would like code to do the 10
year spinup, please contact Grey Nearing, the author of this testcase
(contact details below).

Further, it is important to notice that PALS specifies the vegetation
class at each location. Since the UMD landcover maps do not always agree
with the point-based PALS assessment of landcover, we have overwritten
the vegetation paramters in noah_vegparms.txt so that no matter which
vegetation class the UMD map reports, the vegetation parameters are
chosen from the class that is appropriate for this particular PALS site.
Again, if you would like the routine to do this for all 20 PALS sites,
please contact the author.

A Matalb script is provided to compare the LIS results with the measured
PALS data at this site. Simply start matlab, change the lis_output
directory, and run the gather_results.m script. This script will take a
number of hours to collect data from each LIS output file.

To change the PALS site, it is necessary to change the LIS domain
location in the ldt.config file (lower left and upper right lat-lon
coordinates), and then to change the information in the first few lines
of the lis.config file. Those pieices of information in the lis.config
file that need to be chagned are isolated at the top of the file.
Everything else can be left alone across all PALS sites.

Author contact information:
Grey Nearing
NASA GSFC
grey.s.nearing@nasa.gov

